This directory contains files which can be used to make rusified
Plain TeX and other Plain TeX based formats, such as AMS-TeX, Texinfo
or BLUe TeX, using cyrillic fonts in LCY encoding (which is an 8-bit
extension of OT1 similar to cp866) or T2A encoding.

The file `plainenc.tex' provides a preliminary support of
inputenc/fontenc mechanisms for Plain TeX. It uses the standard
*unmodified* LaTeX files: inputenc.sty, font encoding definition files
(such as lcyenc.def), and input encoding definition files (koi8-r.def,
cp866.def, etc), so that your documents may be in any input encoding
supported by the `cyrillic' bundle of LaTeX.

The files `example4.tex' and `example2.tex' contain examples of using
different input encodings in Plain TeX.  See also a file example3.tex
which shows another way to process Plain TeX files---using the `plain'
package for LaTeX.

To install russian support for Plain TeX, AMS-TeX, Texinfo or BLUe
TeX, please do the following steps:

1) To setup hyphenation, you will need russian hyphenation patterns
and a file `hyphen.cfg' (either from BABEL or created manually). It is
recommended to use russian hyphenation patterns contained in the
`ruhyphen' package (see the README in the parent directory for more
information). There you will find also documentation on installation
and usage of patterns. Note, that for all Plain TeX-based formats it
is recommended to use "combined" Russian-English patterns as a single
language to avoid necessity to use language switching commands like
\Russian and \English (you may use a sample "language.dat" from the
ruhyphen package when creating format files).

2) If you want to be able to use input encodings other than cp866, you
should install the T2 package first. Then edit the file `cyrtex.cfg',
and choose the default input encoding of your documents in the line
"\def\definpenc{koi8-r}". In this case you must install BABEL, because
we use some files from BABEL (e.g., plain.def, hyphen.cfg).

Otherwise (if you will process only documents in cp866 encoding),
change "\iftrue" to "\iffalse" in `cyrtex.cfg' (or put cp866 in the
definition of \definpenc).

Note that we use here the file `lcydefs.tex' which is part of the
`cyrillic' bundle for LaTeX2e (CTAN:macros/latex/required/cyrillic).
Note that this file should be generated as explained in `00readme.txt'
from the `cyrillic' bundle.

3) By default, we use LH fonts. You could change this to any other
LCY- or T2A-encoded font set (e.g. to use Type1 virtual fonts like
`C1 fonts package'), by redefining the command `\fontprefix' in
cyrtex.cfg.

We support LCY and T2A font encodings (see cyrtex.cfg). If you use
T2A encoding, you should get EXMI fonts from CTAN:macros/ec-plain/*.mf
and define \miprefix to `ex' in cyrtex.cfg.

4) Edit the file `makefmts.sh' or `makefmts.bat' (depending on your
platform), and (optionally) remove or comment out the lines which call
INITEX for formats which you do not want to install.

Then run the script/batch file `makefmts.sh' or `makefmts.bat'. This will
create TeX format files: `cyrtex.fmt', `cyramstex.fmt', `cyrtexinfo.fmt'
and `cyrblue.fmt' (maybe not all of them if you commented some lines
in makefmts script). In case of `makefmts.bat', we use short DOSish
filenames `cyramstx.fmt', `cyrtxinf.fmt' instead of `cyramstex.fmt',
`cyrtexinfo.fmt'.  You can rename them to long names if your OS
supports them. ;-) Finally, install the format files as usual (maybe
creating symlinks or scripts/batch files which call TeX with these
formats).

Note: if you are using `amsppt' with AMS-TeX, you should also patch
the file `amsppt.sty', changing some hard-coded CM fonts to the
corresponding cyrillic fonts. The patch `amsppt.diff' is in the `etc'
directory of the T2 package [if you do not have a `patch' utility, you
may do the changes manually].

Please, use plain.tex version 3.1415926 or above.

To make your documents encoding independent, you can use macros like
`\inputencoding{koi8-r}' in your documents (you can even use several
input encodings in one document, --- see the file `example4.tex' in
the directory `../examples').

Please report bugs via email addresses given in the file README in
the parent directory.

Happy TeXing!
